Matplotlib - basic visualisation
seaborn - advanced. designed on top of matplotlib. Thats why even while using seaborn, u use matplotlib to show the plot and to add title etc.

distribution plot (histogram) - based on means

chart used for data distribution - Histogram
to find Outlier (group la doop) - Box Plot
to find co-ordinates for 2 data - line plot
to check overall data - Scatter plot
Correlation - heatmap

every chart is defined for a purpose

Correlation:
If one column value increases and other column value also increases - positive correlation
If one column value increases and other column value decreases - negative correlation
If no relation between 2 columns - 0 correlation

If we want to find the relation between 2 columns - use heatmap

Interview:
Some Model (linear regression) will be decided based on correlation. If its highly correlated, go with this model

//

In python - we will do programmatically

Power BI - Visualisation tool

Open power BI Desktop tool
Select diamonds.csv
Load
In RHs, Under data u can see diamonds
whatever has summation (E) symbol - it denotes, those are numerical data
Click Stacked bar chart
It needs x and y data
Drag cut and price to the chart
It displays the chart beautifully in minimalistic way than programming in python. It displays cut and sum of prices.
If u drag color, it will display color specific data in each bar.
Same thing we will do in data IQ also

advanced excel of microsoft - power BI

Click +new sheet
Get data at top and load diamonds.csv again
U can see existing dataset also at RHS
Click Slicer Visualisation
drag cut to it
Now click outside
click card under Visualisation
drag price to it
select fair alone at top
U can filter and see as both are interconnected

Similarly if u want to interconnect sheet 1 and sheet 2, u can achieve via filter. Autosync - we will see later.

Now click slicer component in sheet 2,
under visualisation > Format Visual > slicer settings
u will have style, select options.

in LHS, if u click Model View, u can see the models and relation also will be established. - check it. Like primary key, foreign key.
cardinality - table to table establishment

///

Visualisation is EDA - Explorative Data Analysis

So far we have seen all about pre processing